---
layout: post
title: A node JS + MongoDB championship manager project
---
<br>
<br>

>Note: this project is under development **[Preview the unfinished project](https://myclub.onrender.com/)**

## Project Objectives

As the developer of this project, my main objectives are to create a championship manager that offers seamless player registration, public player profiles, and efficient championship management. Here's an overview of the project objectives I'm working towards:

1. **Player Registration and Profiles**: Players will be able to register for an account and create public profiles to showcase their achievements and preferences. This will provide them with a platform to build an online presence and make themselves visible to potential clubs and championships.

2. **Club Applications**: Players will have the ability to search for clubs they are interested in and apply to join them. As the developer, I will be implementing a streamlined application process, ensuring that clubs can easily review player applications and make informed decisions.

3. **Championship Participation**: I am developing a feature that will allow players to apply to participate in championships of their choice. The system will enable me, as the developer, to review applications, manage registrations, and track the progress of each championship. This will ensure smooth operations and effective organization.

4. **Participation History**: To provide a comprehensive overview, the system will maintain a participation history acting as a "resume" for both players and clubs. Players will be able to showcase their achievements, while clubs can evaluate player applications based on past performance.

## Technologies Used

In order to achieve these objectives, I have carefully selected the following technologies:

- **Node.js**: I am leveraging the power of Node.js, a popular JavaScript runtime, to build the server-side logic of the application. Its event-driven, non-blocking I/O model ensures efficient and scalable web application development.

- **MongoDB**: For data storage, I have chosen MongoDB, a flexible and scalable NoSQL database. Its document-based structure allows for easy storage and retrieval of data, making it an ideal choice for managing player profiles, club information, and championship details.

- **Express**: I am using Express, a minimalist web application framework for Node.js, to simplify the development of robust web applications. Express provides a set of intuitive and flexible APIs for handling HTTP requests, routing, and middleware integration.

- **EJS (Embedded JavaScript)**: To create dynamic web pages, I am using EJS, a simple templating language that seamlessly integrates with Express. With EJS, I can render dynamic content on the server side and create reusable components for the project.

- **API Design**: I am taking an API-based approach to handle data registration and retrieval. This ensures a clear separation of concerns and facilitates future scalability and integration with other systems.

## Conclusion

As the developer of this Node.js + MongoDB Championship Manager project, I am excited to continue working towards achieving the project objectives. By leveraging the strengths of Node.js, MongoDB, Express, and EJS, I aim to create a powerful and versatile platform for managing championships, player registrations, and club applications.

**[Link to the project kanban on GitHub](https://github.com/users/nivandosoares/projects/1)**
**[Link to the code repository](https://github.com/nivandosoares/myclub)**
**[Preview the unfinished project](https://myclub.onrender.com/)**
